# Caught-In-A-Lie Automated Deception Detection System
Deception detection is an important task carried out in high skate situations like suspect interrogations. Criminal investigations are solely dependent on a suspect’s truthful confession for a case to be solved. The only way to make a suspect confess is by conducting a suspect interrogation with evidence. Detectives face difficulties in detecting deception manually due to various reasons which have made the process hard. Therefore, researchers have identified different automated deception detection approaches. These approaches have many limitations which leads to inaccurate and invalid results. There is a necessity of an accurate, valid and high performing automated deception detection system. For this reason, Caught in a Lie system has been introduced. The system takes nonverbal indicators of humans such as facial cues and facial chirality into account and detect deception of interrogation videos. To the best of the author’s knowledge, a Facial Chirality deep learning model has not been used for any automated deception detection systems up to this point. The proposed system detects deception of interrogation videos accurately and efficiently by outputting the deceptive and truthful percentage of the suspect as well as which indicators caused the deceptiveness or truthfulness of the suspect. Therefore, the Caught in a Lie system is a novel automated deception detection system which is the first to focus on facial chirality when detecting deception. This facial chirality model will assist future researchers of the domain or different domains which require facial chirality
